hi welcome to the bread kitchen today
I'm gonna make a Welsh bread called bara
rift which means speckled bread and I'm
gonna make it the traditional way using
yeast from this traditional recipe I've
got 450 grams of strong white bread
flour 225 ml of lukewarm milk 75 grams
of butter that I've cut into small
pieces 150 grams of dried fruit this is
mixed dried fruit but you can use
sultanas or raisins or mixed peel or
whatever you want 75 grams of Demerara
sugar a beaten egg here there's 2
teaspoons of dried yeast and a teaspoon
of brown sugar and finally I've got a
teaspoon of salt and a teaspoon of mixed
spice now mixed spice is a mixture of
things like cinnamon and nutmeg and
cardamom
you might know it as pumpkin spice I'll
start by adding the yeast and the
teaspoon of sugar come to the warm milk
a little whisk and then I'll leave it
for 10 minutes just with the yeast to
activate
while the yeast of waking up I can sieve
the flour into a bowl then I'll add in
the butter and I'll mix these together
rub them together with my hands until I
get a texture which is a bit like sand
if you've ever made scone the source
Cotton's you'll know the texture I'm
talking about when the pot has been
nicely rubbed in it should be like
playing in a nice dry sand pit now I'll
add in the brown sugar the 75 grandmas
the mixed spice and the salt and I'll
just mix it all together I've just make
a well in the center my yeasts gone all
frothy and is now smelling well yeasty I
suppose I put in together with the
beaten egg
and makes this to a nice smooth dough
now depending on the size of your egg
you might find that you do is a bit
sticky but that's no problem because
I'll show you how I deal with sticky
dough's literally flour a surface but
you're gonna need the dough on your
sticky dough turn the dough out and
knead it well and some of the flour that
you've got on the surface will start to
get incorporated into the dough I start
to remove the stickiness now you may
need to dust the surface a few times
depending on how sticky your dough is
but you will eventually end up with a
nice soft dough you see this is getting
much better already I've managed to
kneading enough flour at the dough is
just slightly tacky it's not sticky
anymore
so I'm gonna need it now for about seven
or eight minutes work that gluten mm-hmm
I've been given the dough really good
pummelling make it into a nice smooth
ball pop it into a lightly greased bowl
then cover and put in a nice warm place
until the dough doubles in size well
this is certainly risen very nicely
thank you
so I'll tip it out onto a floured
surface but I just knock it back a bit
now add all the dried fruit fold over
and knead the fruit into the dough I'm
gonna knead for about five minutes
probably
I like to think I've got the fruit a
fairly well incorporated so I'm gonna
make this into a around now what I tend
to do is if I see any bits of fruit on
the surface I'd pull them off because in
the oven they tend to blacken very
easily and it doesn't make the loaf look
particularly appetizing so I've picked
off a better doesn't just over it
doesn't it's a dried fruit and I've got
a piece of dough here which has no fruit
poking out of it
I'll now transfer this to a lightly
greased baking tray now I'll just cover
it you can use some cling film I'm
actually you're gonna use an upturned
bowl and I'm gonna leave this again in a
warm place to rise for about half an
hour now once your loaf is risen
we're gonna bake this in the oven at 180
fun oven 200 normal oven for about half
an hour after about 30 minutes each with
this lovely golden brown color now while
it's still hot just brush it all over
with a little warm honey look at that
lovely shiny glaze now leave this to
cool serve in slices slightly warm maybe
spread with butter or margarine if you
prefer now there are many variations of
the Bharath recipe and a lot of them use
self raising flour and baking powder and
I used to use that recipe too but once
I've made bear a breath with the yeast
I'm never going back again I hope you
enjoy making your bear breath and do
join me next time in the bread kitchen